Meeting 118.md (#367)
ethereum/pm: All Core Devs Meetings/Meeting 118.md

# All Core Devs Meeting 118
### Meeting Date/Time: July 23, 2021, 14:00 UTC
### Meeting Duration: 1 hour 30 min
### [Github Agenda](https://github.com/ethereum/pm/issues/354)
### [Video of the meeting](https://youtu.be/tjvviOLy0hw)
### Moderator: Tim
### Notes: Alen (Santhosh)

## Decisions Made / Action items
| Decision Item | Description | Video ref |
| ------------- | ----------- | --------- |

> |118.1 | Tim to update the blog -  So just for this to be clear. If you are a validator on Gordy using Geth version is one that 1.10.6 if you're using Aragon, I'm not sure there's any of them but still 2021.0 7.04 - Alpha and if you're using nether mind, the 1.10.79. All of these are linked in the post-mortem obviously and I'll make sure to have an update in the London announcement blog. Post on blog | [20.45](https://youtu.be/tjvviOLy0hw?t=1245)|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|118.1 | Tim to update the blog -  So just for this to be clear. If you are a validator on Gorli using Geth version is one that 1.10.6 if you're using Erigon, I'm not sure there's any of them but still 2021.0 7.04 - Alpha and if you're using Nethermind, the 1.10.79. All of these are linked in the post-mortem obviously and I'll make sure to have an update in the London announcement blog. Post on blog | [20.45](https://youtu.be/tjvviOLy0hw?t=1245)|
```

|118.2 | Setting up an end of life policy such as first release after Shanghai will remove the gas price field | [31.56](https://youtu.be/tjvviOLy0hw?t=1916) |

> |118.3 | Micah proposed we speak to app developers about end of life for this gas price field on 1559 transactions and to see if any one has a  strong opinions and discussion about the timeline |[34.39](https://youtu.be/tjvviOLy0hw?t=2079) |

Reviewer: 118.2 & 118.3 can be combined into one

> |118.4 | Tim on if we want to Target difficulty bomb only fork in December, maybe we don't call that Shanghai. And we call it some like to word name, like we did for Muir. Glacier his proposal, I think was Arctic Glacier or something like that. | [1.03.56](https://youtu.be/tjvviOLy0hw?t=3836) |

Reviewer: I think the decision on this item was to continue discussion async. Tim will create a FEM thread to continue the naming discussion.

|118.5 | Tim to start an a thread on Eth magicians. Just to get kind of broader feedback on it and it is people have strong opinions. I think this kind of like the last time we could voice them on the Shanghai. |[1.12.01](https://youtu.be/tjvviOLy0hw?t=4321) |
|118.6 | Danny, the merge specific call has been discard, will happen through breakout on demand | [1.29.34](https://youtu.be/tjvviOLy0hw?t=5374) |

> |118.7 | Tim, basically everyone aside from potentially Aragon really wanted to focus on the merge next that if we kind of got to a spot where we merge testnet. That might be a good spot to re-evaluate what we can put in Shanghai or whatever. We call what happens in December. The kind of focus on the merge starting from here, get to a spot where we do have you no ill implemented in all the clients and it's running on test Nets and depending how you know how much bandwidth we have there? We can possibly do some features for the December upgrade. But if we get there and realize that, you know, we just don't have the bandwidth, then it'll have to move further out.|[1.29.50](https://youtu.be/tjvviOLy0hw?t=5385) |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|118.7 | Tim, basically everyone aside from potentially Erigon really wanted to focus on the merge next that if we kind of got to a spot where we merge testnet. That might be a good spot to re-evaluate what we can put in Shanghai or whatever we call what happens in December. The kind of focus on the merge starting from here, get to a spot where we do have you know EIP implemented in all the clients and it's running on testnets and depending on how you know how much bandwidth we have there? We can possibly do some features for the December upgrade. But if we get there and realize that, you know, we just don't have the bandwidth, then it'll have to move further out.|[1.29.50](https://youtu.be/tjvviOLy0hw?t=5385) |
```

**Tim**
* So basically just to make sure I understand you're saying you know we get merged testnets up as soon as possible you suspect, we might be able to do that before October. And it's like when October comes then we end the testnet up. Then you think we would have more bandwidth to work on, you know, kind of a feature Shanghai. 

**Tomasz Stanczak**
* I think that's maybe and of October test that is more likely and then if we if you manage to keep Shanghai reasonably slim and the like outside of coredev still be enough of the analysis of the EIPs, that one or two, make it the Shanghai and the other ones may be proposed for Cancun for next year. 

**Tim**
* Got it. Rai you any thoughts? 

**Rai**

> * Sorry, I was distracted by something was the question.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Sorry, I was distracted by something, what was the question?
```

**Micah Zoltu**
* Yeah. I think it also has an impact on just the broader Community people's people. Often talk about London, for example, long before London comes out and So, I think, I think they also are stakeholders that matter, like it shows up in news, article shows up in chat rooms, it shows up and Twitter tweets, like these names show up everywhere and they affect a lot of people. So yeah. 

**Tim**
* So with that being said, you think the time like Shanghai in the, in December, is it's just easier for people to keep track of 

**Micah Zoltu**
* That's my feeling but like if we wanted to solicit external opinions, I think that we should extend beyond just EIP authors and also trying to see if we can get feelings from the broader Community which I know is extremely hard. 

**Martin**
* So, the didn't we didn't kind of decide to use the dev com sites as the name for hard works just so we wouldn't have to be by shutting about names, so much in the future. I'm crazy. Why we should deviate from that on that? 

**Pooja | ECH**

> * That was the first time when we decided that we will be following that Devcon names. And right after Istanbul, we did Muir Glacier because that was just the one Fork to push the difficulty Bob and I feel that it makes sense. If it is only for difficulty bomb, we should have something like that was proposed, like, our Arctic Glacier just to be in sync that. Okay, fine. It is just for difficulty bomb. And for all other feature folks that are very important for people to upgrade their nodes especially like with the latest of client it makes sense. I mean that's just my thought and it's not like very, very hard 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Istanbul was the first time when we decided that we will be following that Devcon names. And right after Istanbul, we did Muir Glacier because that was just one proposal to push the difficulty bomb and I feel that it makes sense. If it is only for difficulty bomb, we should have something like that was proposed, like, our Arctic Glacier just to be in sync that okay, fine. It is just for the difficulty bomb. And for all other feature forks that are very important for people to upgrade their nodes especially like with the latest clients, it makes sense. I mean that's just my thought and it's not like very, very strong suggestion.
```

**Tim**
* Any other final comments thoughts from anyone? Okay. Well, thank you very much and see you all in two weeks. Oh and upgrade your notes for London so and keep an eye out for the Ethereum Foundation blog post today or or Monday with the release versions. But yes London will be happening before the next Alcoredev F's. Thank you. Tim cool. Thank you. Thanks everyone. Thanks everyone. Bye. Thanks bot. Wow.

-------------------------------------------
## Attendees

* Tim
* Lukusz Rozmej
* YDXTY TS
* Lightclient
* William morriss
* Mikhail Kalinin
* Dusan Stanivukovic
* Gary Schulte 
* Trenton Van Epps
* Pooja | ECH
* MariusVanDer
* Ansgar Dietrichs
* Baptiste Marchand
* Martin Holst
* Jingwei
* Tomasz Stancxak
* Tyevlag
* Alex Stokes
* Crypto_Eren77
* Andrei Maiboroda
* Micah ZOltu
* Alenque
* Selvis
* Yanxi
* Charlie
* Kay
* Stag
* Thea
* Rai
* Danny
* Encryption wizard
* Artem Vorotnikov

> ---------------------------------------

Reviewer: Add the next meeting date & time
